This week, I'll be talking about
transfer learning with
the full transformer.
I'll also talk a
little bit about BERT,
which is the Bidirectional
Encoder Representation
for Transformers.
Then I'll talk about
a special model known
as the T5 model,
what you learned about.
Now all of these concepts make
use of transfer learning.
What is transfer learning?
Let me show you.
You'll now take a look at the
transfer learning options
that you will have while
performing your NLP tasks.
This is a quick recap where
you have your train data,
goes into a model,
then you have a prediction.
Transfer learning will
come in two basic forms.
The first one is using
feature-based learning,
and the other one is
using fine-tuning.
By feature-based, I mean
things like word
vectors being learnt.
Fine-tuning is you take
an existing model,
existing weights,
and then you tweak them a
little bit to make sure that
they work on the specific
task you're working on.
There is pre-trained
data which makes
use of labeled and
unlabeled data,
let's say you're training
your model on sentiments
for product reviews.
Then you can use those
same weights to train
your model on course reviews.
Then the other thing
is pre-training task,
which usually makes use
of language modeling.
For example, you mask
a word and you try to
predict what that word is,
or you try to predict what
the next sentence would be.
Let's look at
general-purpose learning,
and this is something that
you're already familiar with.
Over here you have
I am because I'm
learning and you're trying
to predict the central word.
The central word is
happy over here.
You used a model known
as the continuous
bag-of-words model.
Or at least you got the
following embeddings.
Now you can use
these embeddings as
the inputs features and
translation tasks to translate
from English to German.
Let's look at a more
concrete example
of feature-based
versus fine-tuning.
Where you have word embeddings,
put it in your model,
you get a prediction.
Then over here you get
some type of new features
or new word embeddings.
Then you feed them into a
completely different model.
This gives you your prediction.
Now, on the fine-tuning side,
you have your embeddings,
you feed it into your model,
you get a prediction, and
then you fine-tune
on this model,
on the downstream task.
Then you have some new inputs
on your new weight so that
you fine-tune so you feed it
in and you get a prediction.
Let's look at fine-tuning.
This is a way to add
fine-tuning to your model.
Let's say you have movies and
you're predicting one star,
two stars, or three stars.
You pre-trained and let's
say now you have course reviews.
One way you can do this is you
fix all of these weights
that you already have.
Then you add a new
feed-forward network
while keeping everything
else frozen here.
Then you just tune on
this new network
that you just added.
Data affects performance a lot.
In this case, you have
data being fed into
your model and you get
some neutral outcome.
But as you have more data
and you build a larger
model over here,
then you get a much
better outcome.
The more data you have,
the better it is, and
the more data you have,
the bigger the models
you can build will
be able to capture the task
you're trying to predict on.
Let's look at labeled
versus unlabeled data.
Now, this is just
a graphic example
that tells you that usually
you'll have way more
unlabeled text data
than labeled text data.
Here's an example.
In pre-training you
have no labels.
You feed this into your model.
Then in downstream task,
you could have something like,
what day is Pi day,
feed this into your model
and you get the March 14th.
Remember, these are the word
vectors we're talking about.
Which tasks work
with unlabeled data?
This is a self-supervised task,
so you have the unlabeled data,
and then you create
input features.
You create targets or labels.
This is how it works.
You have unlabeled data,
learning from
deep-learning AI is
like watching the sunset
with my best friend.
You create the inputs
and then blank.
The sunset with my best blank.
You're trying to predict friend.
You feed this into your model.
You get your prediction.
The target is friend,
here prediction goes in.
You have the loss
here and then you
use this loss to
update your model.
This is basic language modeling
that you've already seen before.
Let's look at fine-tuning a
model in the downstream task.
You have your model here.
You did some pre-training
on it either by
masking words or predicting
the next sentence.
Then use this model to train
it on downstream tasks.
You can use this model,
fine-tune it on translation
or summarization, or
question answering.
Here's a summary of what
you've seen so far.
Usually you have
some train data,
you have the model,
you make a prediction.
We use transfer learning to get
feature-based examples
or fine-tuning.
Feature-based like word
vectors or word embeddings and
fine-tuning is something that's
you can do on downstream tasks.
Then we can also use
labeled data and unlabeled
data to help us.
You can train something on
a different task on a
different data set.
and that will also
help a little bit.
Then you can use
pre-training task like
language modeling
or masked words
or next sentence prediction.
You have now seen some
advantages of transfer learning.